RHEL 7 Online Storage Management

------------------------------------------------------------------------
Important Warning
Online storage reconfiguration must be done carefully. System failures
or interruptions during the process can lead to unexpected results. Red
Hat advises that you reduce system load to the maximum extent possible
during the change operations. This will reduce the chance of I/O errors,
out-of-memory errors, or similar errors occurring in the midst of a
configuration change. The following sections provide more specific
guidelines regarding this.

In addition, Red Hat recommends that you back up all data before
reconfiguring online storage.
------------------------------------------------------------------------

8. Removing A storage device
Before removing access to the storage device itself, it is advisable 
to back up data from the device first. Afterwards, flush I/O and 
remove all operating system references to the device (as described below). 
If the device uses multipathing, then do this for the multipath 
"pseudo device" (Section ch7.2, “WWID”) and each of the identifiers 
that represent a path to the device. If you are only removing a path 
to a multipath device, and other paths will remain, then the procedure 
is simpler.

Removal of a storage device is not recommended when the system is 
under memory pressure, since the I/O flush will add to the load. 
To determine the level of memory pressure, run the command 
"vmstat 1 100"; device removal is not recommended if:

  1. Free memory is less than 5% of the total memory in more than 
  10 samples per 100 (the command free can also be used to display 
  the total memory).
  2. Swapping is active (non-zero si and so columns in the vmstat 
  output).
  
The general procedure for removing all access to a device is as 
follows:

  1. Close all users of the device and backup device data as needed.
  2. Use umount to unmount any file systems that mounted the device.
  3. Remove the device from any md and LVM volume using it. If the 
  device is a member of an LVM Volume group, then it may be necessary 
  to move data off the device using the pvmove command, then use 
  the vgreduce command to remove the physical volume, and (optionally) 
  pvremove to remove the LVM metadata from the disk.
  4. If the device uses multipathing, run multipath -l and note all 
  the paths to the device. Afterwards, remove the multipathed device 
  using "multipath -f device".
  5. Run "blockdev --flushbufs device" to flush any outstanding I/O 
  to all paths to the device. This is particularly important for 
  raw devices, where there is no umount or vgreduce operation to 
  cause an I/O flush.
  6. Remove any reference to the device's path-based name, like 
  /dev/sd, /dev/disk/by-path or the major:minor number, in applications, 
  scripts, or utilities on the system. This is important in ensuring 
  that different devices added in the future will not be mistaken for 
  the current device.
  7. Finally, remove each path to the device from the SCSI subsystem. 
  To do so, use the command 
  echo 1 > /sys/block/device-name/device/delete 
  where device-name may be sde, for example.
  Another variation of this operation is 
  echo 1 > /sys/class/scsi_device/h:c:t:l/device/delete, 
  where h is the HBA number, c is the channel on the HBA, t is 
  the SCSI target ID, and l is the LUN.
NOTE:
The older form of these commands, 
echo "scsi remove-single-device 0 0 0 0" > /proc/scsi/scsi, 
is deprecated.

You can determine the device-name, HBA number, HBA channel, SCSI 
target ID and LUN for a device from various commands, such as 
lsscsi, scsi_id, multipath -l, and ls -l /dev/disk/by-*.

After performing Procedure ch9, “Ensuring a Clean Device Removal”, 
a device can be physically removed safely from a running system. 
It is not necessary to stop I/O to other devices while doing so.

Other procedures, such as the physical removal of the device, 
followed by a rescan of the SCSI bus (as described in ch11, 
“Scanning Storage Interconnects”) to cause the operating system 
state to be updated to reflect the change, are not recommended. 
This will cause delays due to I/O timeouts, and devices may be 
removed unexpectedly. If it is necessary to perform a rescan of 
an interconnect, it must be done while I/O is paused, as described 
in ch11, “Scanning Storage Interconnects”.


