RHEL 7 Online Storage Management

------------------------------------------------------------------------
Important Warning
Online storage reconfiguration must be done carefully. System failures
or interruptions during the process can lead to unexpected results. Red
Hat advises that you reduce system load to the maximum extent possible
during the change operations. This will reduce the chance of I/O errors,
out-of-memory errors, or similar errors occurring in the midst of a
configuration change. The following sections provide more specific
guidelines regarding this.

In addition, Red Hat recommends that you back up all data before
reconfiguring online storage.
------------------------------------------------------------------------

9. REMOVING A PATH TO A STORAGE DEVICE

If you are removing a path to a device that uses multipathing 
(without affecting other paths to the device), then the general 
procedure is as follows:

Removing a Path to a Storage Device

  1. Remove any reference to the device's path-based name, like
  /dev/sd or /dev/disk/by-path or the major:minor number, in 
  applications, scripts, or utilities on the system. This is 
  important in ensuring that different devices added in the future 
  will not be mistaken for the current device.
  
  2. Take the path offline using 
  echo offline > /sys/block/sda/device/state.
  This will cause any subsequent I/O sent to the device on this 
  path to be failed immediately. Device-mapper-multipath will 
  continue to use the remaining paths to the device.
  3. Remove the path from the SCSI subsystem. To do so, use the 
  command 
  echo 1 > /sys/block/device-name/device/delete 
  where device-name may be sde, for example (as described in 
  ch9, “Ensuring a Clean Device Removal”).

After performing Procedure ch10, “Removing a Path to a Storage Device”, 
the path can be safely removed from the running system. It is not 
necessary to stop I/O while this is done, as device-mapper-multipath 
will re-route I/O to remaining paths according to the configured 
path grouping and failover policies.

Other procedures, such as the physical removal of the cable, followed 
by a rescan of the SCSI bus to cause the operating system state 
to be updated to reflect the change, are not recommended. This 
will cause delays due to I/O timeouts, and devices may be removed 
unexpectedly. If it is necessary to perform a rescan of an interconnect, 
it must be done while I/O is paused, as described in ch11, “Scanning 
Storage Interconnects”.


