RHEL 7 Online Storage Management

------------------------------------------------------------------------
Important Warning
Online storage reconfiguration must be done carefully. System failures
or interruptions during the process can lead to unexpected results. Red
Hat advises that you reduce system load to the maximum extent possible
during the change operations. This will reduce the chance of I/O errors,
out-of-memory errors, or similar errors occurring in the midst of a
configuration change. The following sections provide more specific
guidelines regarding this.

In addition, Red Hat recommends that you back up all data before
reconfiguring online storage.
------------------------------------------------------------------------

11 Scan storage interconnects

There are several commands available that allow you to reset and/or 
scan one or more interconnects, potentially adding and removing 
multiple devices in one operation. This type of scan can be 
disruptive, as it can cause delays while I/O operations timeout, 
and remove devices unexpectedly. As such, Red Hat recommends that 
this type of scan be used only when necessary. In addition, the 
following restrictions must be observed when scanning storage 
interconnects:
  1. All I/O on the effected interconnects must be paused and 
  flushed before executing the procedure, and the results of the 
  scan checked before I/O is resumed.

  2. As with removing a device, interconnect scanning is not 
  recommended when the system is under memory pressure. To 
  determine the level of memory pressure, run the command 
  "vmstat 1 100"; interconnect scanning is not recommended if 
  free memory is less than 5% of the total memory in more than 
  10 samples per 100. It is also not recommended if swapping is 
  active (non-zero si and so columns in the vmstat output). The 
  command free can also display the total memory.

The following commands can be used to scan storage interconnects.

echo "1" > /sys/class/fc_host/host/issue_lip
  This operation performs a Loop Initialization Protocol (LIP) 
  and then scans the interconnect and causes the SCSI layer to be 
  updated to reflect the devices currently on the bus. A LIP is, 
  essentially, a bus reset, and will cause device addition and 
  removal. This procedure is necessary to configure a new SCSI 
  target on a Fibre Channel interconnect.
  
  Bear in mind that issue_lip is an asynchronous operation. The 
  command may complete before the entire scan has completed. You 
  must monitor /var/log/messages to determine when it is done.
  
  The lpfc, qla2xxx, and bnx2fc drivers support issue_lip. For 
  more information about the API capabilities supported by each 
  driver in RHEL, refer to Table 25.1, “Fibre Channel API 
  Capabilities”.
/usr/bin/rescan-scsi-bus.sh
  This script scans all the SCSI buses on the system by default, 
  updating the SCSI layer to reflect new devices on the bus. 
  The script provides additional options to allow device removal 
  and the issuing of LIPs. For more information about this script 
  (including known issues), refer to “Adding/Removing a Logical 
  Unit Through rescan-scsi-bus.sh”.

echo "- - -" > /sys/class/scsi_host/hosth/scan
  This is the same command described in Section “Adding a Storage 
  Device or Path” to add a storage device or path. In this case, 
  however, the channel number, SCSI target ID, and LUN values are 
  replaced by wildcards. Any combination of identifiers and wildcards 
  is allowed, allowing you to make the command as specific or 
  broad as needed. This procedure will add LUNs, but not remove 
  them.
  
rmmod driver-name or modprobe driver-name
  These commands completely re-initialize the state of all interconnects 
  controlled by the driver. Although this is extreme, it may be 
  appropriate in some situations. This may be used, for example, 
  to re-start the driver with a different module parameter value.



