

What Is AWS Snowball?

AWS Import/Export is a service that accelerates transferring large amounts of data into and out of AWS using physical 
storage appliances, bypassing the Internet. AWS Import/Export has two features that support this functionality in two 
different ways, AWS Snowball (Snowball) and AWS Import/Export Disk (Disk).

With Snowball, you can transfer hundreds of terabytes or petabytes of data between your on-premises data centers and 
Amazon Simple Storage Service (Amazon S3). AWS Snowball uses Snowball appliances and provides powerful interfaces that 
you can use to create jobs, transfer data, and track the status of your jobs through to completion. By shipping your 
data in Snowballs, you can transfer large amounts of data at a significantly faster rate than if you were transferring 
that data over the Internet, saving you time and money.

Note
There are many options for transferring your data into AWS. Snowball is intended for transferring large amounts of data. 
If you want to transfer less than 10 terabytes of data between your on-premises data centers and Amazon S3, Snowball might 
not be your most economical choice.
Snowball uses Snowball appliances shipped through your region's carrier. Each Snowball is protected by AWS Key Management 
Service (AWS KMS) and made physically rugged to secure and protect your data while the Snowball is in transit. In the US 
regions, Snowballs come in two sizes: 50 TB and 80 TB. All other regions have 80 TB Snowballs only.

Snowball Features

Snowball has the following features:

1. You can import and export data between your on-premises data storage locations and Amazon S3.
2. Snowball has an 80 TB model available in all regions, and a 50 TB model only available in the US regions.
3. Encryption is enforced, protecting your data at rest and in physical transit.
4. You don't have to buy or maintain your own hardware devices.
5. You can manage your jobs through the AWS Snowball Management Console, or programmatically with the job management API.
6. You can perform local data transfers between your on-premises data center and a Snowball can be done through the Snowball 
client, a standalone downloadable client, or programmatically using Amazon S3 REST API calls with the downloadable Amazon 
S3 API adapter for Snowball. For more information, see Transferring Data with a Snowball.
7. The Snowball is its own shipping container, and its E Ink display changes to show your shipping label when the Snowball 
is ready to ship. For more information, see Shipping Considerations for AWS Snowball.
8. For a list of regions where Snowball is available, see AWS Snowball in the AWS General Reference.
Note
Snowball doesn't support international shipping or shipping between regions outside of the US. For more information on 
shipping restrictions, see Region-Based Shipping Restrictions.
