English Daily


down side
Now, let me tell you the down side.
现在，让我告诉你一些负面的东西。

The down side involves druids with pointy sticks.
坏处包括一群拿着尖木棒的德鲁伊。

In its deep gloom we sat down side by side on a wicker settee.
在苍茫的暮色中我们并排在一张柳条的长靠椅上坐下。

A hundred millions of them laid down side by side would make a line only about an inch long.
一亿个微粒逐个地排列成线，也只有大约一英寸长。

The down side to this is that engines of greater displacement have larger internal friction surfaces inside and that robs power.
这的向下边是更大的替代的那发动机有更大的内摩擦在里面的表面和那抢劫能力。

SK: The up side is, it doubles as a trap detection system. The down side involves druids with pointy sticks.
好处是它还能用作陷阱侦测系统。坏处包括一群拿着尖木棒的德鲁伊。

On the down side, DToC feels a bit less responsive than VNC overall - not terrible, but a little less good.
从不利方面看,总的说来,比起VNC,DToC感觉上响应较慢这并不可怕,但少许差了点。

The only down side to the game for Axminster carpet was the sending off of winger Simon Howells.
通过机房建设,与客户的交流内容可以完整的保存在服务器中,随时可以查找可调用,从而避免了由于员工的离开而使客户流失。

The only down side to the game for Axminster carpet was the nail care sending off of winger Simon Howells.
品牌项目之一的'性知识大赛'今年将一改由数个代表队在台上参加的形式，举行人人均有机会参与的'猜灯谜'有奖活动。

Burnstein KL,Cidlowski JA.The down side of glucocorticoid receptor regulation.Mol Cell Endocrinol 1992 ,83(1):1-8.凌昌全李敏.

Unfortunately the down side of all this firepower is that it takes an eternity to reload.
但不行的是，超强威力的另一面是长得令人难以忍受的装填时间。

The only down side to the game for mold maker was the sending off of winger Simon Howells.
物流师交换机一般不需要专职的话务员和维护人员。当外线呼入时，可由任一部电话应答，并可以转给所需的被叫。

The down side to this build is reduced pet DPS, since Cobra Strikes is not maxed.
这个配点的劣势是宠的伤害低了，因为眼镜蛇打击没点满。

It improves your DPS, but the down side it, your images can't trigger any Bashes.
它可以提升你的DPS，但缺点在于，分身并不能触发巨力重击。

The deer was peppered with shot all down one side.
那只死鹿的半边身子都被子弹击中。

On the down side, the risk would be pretty high, and the impact of switching from one application to another could be daunting.
而不利的一面是,风险会非常高,从一个应用程序切换到另外一个的冲击可能会非常巨大。

And it is human nature that we all embrace the benefits with much greater enthusiasm than to even just notice the down side risks.
基于人类天性,我们当然欣赏事物正面的好处,反面的风险却甚少留意。

Watch the point and price where the last move starts up from and when that price is broken,consider that the main trend is changing to the down side.
观察在最后阶段行情开始位置和价格上涨变化，当这个价格被有效突破后，可以认为主趋势正向下发生改变。

Have a glass of beer to rinse your dinner down.
喝杯啤酒把你吃的晚饭冲下去。

The machine must break down at this busy hour.
正忙的时候，机器偏偏又坏了。
