
    这是一个很好地例子， 作者本意是要讲一个观点： “Cloud backup could have prevented Delta's meltdown”
云备份可以防止Delta的事故， 作者从Delta的一个重要维护事故开始讲起，引入云备份，这样的叙述方式很容易
被倾听的人接受，引起共鸣。 以后的工作中可以引为借鉴。


I hope you weren't flying Delta this week. If you were, you know that Delta's systems experienced an 
outage, and of course passengers bore the brunt of it in hundreds of canceled and delayed flights.
我希望这周你没有乘坐达美航空，如果你不幸这么做了， 你应该知道达美的系统经历了一次断电，当然乘客们也
经历了航班取消和延误的痛苦。

When Delta performs a postmortem on this outage, it will likely find that the outage was caused by a 
common occurrence: network failure. However, Delta could not recover or switch to backup systems. As my 
InfoWorld colleague Andrew C. Oliver wrote, Delta neglected the four pillars of high availability.
达美对这次断电做了事后分析， 很可能断电时有一次偶然的网络事故。然而达美不能快速恢复或者切换到备份的系统上。
作为我的Infoworld的同事Andrew C. Oliver写的， 达美忽视了高可用的4个核心。


Delta's CEO admitted as much, telling the Wall Street Journal that "it's not clear the priorities in our 
investment have been in the right place. It has caused us to ask a lot of questions which candidly we don't 
have a lot of answers for."
达美的CEO承认这点，告诉华尔街杂志， “我们的投资在正确的地方的优先级，是不清楚的。它促使我们问大量的问题，
坦诚的讲我们还没有答案”

Although cloud computing is not always the answer, the absence of effective business continuity and disaster 
recovery (BC/DR) is normally due to a lack of funds. Traditional backup sites cost many millions of dollars 
to establish and many more to operate as a hot standby.
尽管云计算不一定是答案， 有效业务的持续性中断和灾难恢复（BC/DR）通常是因为缺少资金。传统的备用站点需要花费
数百万美金来建设，并且作为一个热备站点来运作。

That's why the use of IaaS clouds as redundant analogs to primary systems is becoming a common practice. 
More and more, organizations are placing copies of their processing and data in the cloud, which run constantly 
paired with their primary systems. When the primary goes down, the secondary (cloud) system takes over automatically. 
That is, they fail over to the cloud.
这就是为什么使用IaaS云作为主系统的冗余选择已经变成了一个通用的实践， 越来越多的组织，把他们的流程和数据复制到云上，
保持和主系统的流程和数据配对。 网主系统宕机，第二套系统（在云上）会立刻接管，也就是说fail over到云上了 

Unlike traditional BC/DR approaches, public cloud services don't require hardware and software, they don't 
require many operators, and they have their own BC/DR mechanisms in place. They're not that hard to set up either; 
I could show Delta how to do it in an afternoon.
不想传统的BC/DR方法，公有云服务不需要硬件和软件，他们不需要运维人员，他们有自己的BC/DR机制来代替，配置也不难了，
我可以在一个下午的时间展示给达美该怎么做？

I suspect that, at Delta, the lack of effective BC/DR was a money issue, and the company considered it an acceptable 
risk. But with cloud resources now available for a fraction of the price of traditional backup systems, it's no longer 
a risk you can take.
我很怀疑，在达美，缺少有效的BC/DR是因为钱的问题，公司认为这是可以接受的风险，但是，现在使用云资源，来替代传统的备份
系统，不再是一种达美要承受的风险。
